So our scripture text for today discusses the qualities needed to walk worthily and in a way that pleases Jehovah.
Now, you notice our scripture in scripture text Ephesians 4.1 is only a partial sentence.
Let's read the entire sentence which takes in verses 1 through 3.
Ephesians 4 verses 1 through 3.
He says, therefore, I, the prisoner in the Lord, appeal to you to walk worthily of the calling for which you recalled with all humility.
And mildness with patience, putting up with one another in love, earnestly endeavoring to maintain the oneness of the Spirit in the uniting bond of peace.
So here the Apostle Paul links walking worthily with unity and you notice the qualities that are needed to do that.
He says that we need humility, mildness, and patience.
Now, this is not the only time that the Apostle Paul links these three qualities with being in unity.
We may remember Colossians chapter 3 and verse 12.
And it tells us to clothe ourselves with humility, mildness, and patience.
Why so that we can continue putting up with one another?
So why are these qualities so essential to peace and to unity?
What would the scriptures say about them?
Well, perhaps we think of the scripture in Philippians chapter 2, verse 3 and 4, which says,
do nothing out of contentiousness or egotism, but with humility, consider others superior to you.
See, that brings about peace and unity or a proverb, chapter 15 and verse 1, a mild answer turns away rage or proverb,
chapter 25, 15, by patience, a commander is one over the humility, mildness, patience.
These qualities are so vital for taking tension out of a situation and allowing for humility and for unity and peace.
Now, as many accounts in the Bible, they illustrate this fact and we're going to consider just one that of the Ephraimites and Gideon.
If you look in your Bibles in Judges chapter 6 and 7, it sets out the account of Gideon going against the Midianites.
We remember a response to Jehovah's direction, Gideon went against Midian first with 32,000 men and then finally weeded down to only 300 men.
Now, if you look in your Bibles, the study Bible map B6, it helps us to visualize the strategy that Gideon used with Jehovah's direction.
Now, the Midianites gather near the hill of Maurei and you can see that here on the map.
And if you look at Judges chapter 6 and verse 34, we're reminded that Jehovah's spirit came upon Gideon.
So here he's operating under Jehovah's spirit.
So what did he do?
First off, he calls on the tribes of Manasseh, Asher, Zebulin and Nathdalai to assist.
And that makes sense because you can see where those tribes were in relation to where the fighting was going to be.
Then in Judges chapter 7, verse 22, Gideon's initial attack through the Midianites into confusion.
And so the Midianites flee south toward Abomihola.
Verse 23 of chapter 7 says that he then calls on Nathdalai, Asher and Manasseh to chase after them and push them toward the south, further south.
And you can see the logic in that.
But then in an excellent strategy, in verse 24 and 25, to head them off, he also calls on Ephraim to capture the waters as far as Bethbara and block their escape.
And they do.
And they're successful.
The two main princes of Midian are killed.
It's victory, an excellent strategy, one of the greatest and most courageous and bravest battles in the Bible.
In fact, interestingly, there's no record ever again of the Midianites bothering Jehovah's people after this victory.
Can you imagine having a share in that project?
How excited you would be?
Well, not everybody was.
Look at Judges chapter 8 and verse 1.
It says, then the men of Ephraim said to him, to Gideon,
What have you done to us?
Why did you not call us when you went to fight against Midian and they quarreled bitterly with him?
What was Ephraim's problem?
Well, they felt they should have been involved earlier, or perhaps the situation should have been handled different.
Why weren't we involved?
Why didn't you call us?
We didn't know anything that was going on.
Then we had to drop everything and come and bail you out.
Well, did Ephraim have humility, maleness, and patience?
And it was disrupting unity.
Now, how did Gideon respond?
No, remember Gideon had Jehovah's Spirits, and he had an excellent strategy that led to an outstanding victory for Jehovah.
How did he respond?
Well, look at verses 2 and 3.
It says, but he said to them,
What have I done compared with you?
Are not the gleanings of Ephraim better than the great harvest of Abysir?
It was into your hand that God gave Midian's princes Orab and Zia.
And what have I done compared with you?
When he spoke this way, they calmed down.
You see Gideon showed humility, maleness, and patience.
And the result, everyone calmed down and Gideon was able to get on with Jehovah's work at hand.
Now, we contrast that to the next time that the Ephraimites pulled the same trick,
as recorded in Judges chapter 12.
There, you remember they accused Jeptha of not calling them into battle, same story.
What did Jeptha do?
Well, he says, Well, I did call you into battle and you didn't come.
So I just did it myself.
Next, you know, they're fighting among themselves completely distracted from carrying on Jehovah's work.
What's the lesson?
Well, the lesson is, is that things happen at times that makes peace go away.
Sometimes brothers in the congregation at Bethel on a construction site may react like
Ephraimites.
Sometimes we react like Ephraimites.
But why didn't you ask my opinion?
I was supposed to be involved in this.
Why'd you call me last minute when you knew you needed this two weeks ago,
and now I have to drop everything and help you out?
See, that happens.
We're only human.
Well, when it happens, how will we react?
He's a unity is more important than who was right and who was wrong,
and Gideon understood that simple truth, and unity is so important today.
It was interesting, a beautiful watchtower article, 2014, December 15th,
and the article was entitled, Facing the End of this Old World Together,
and it stated this, it said, one of the darkest periods in human history,
nears. For God's people, it will be a time for unity.
It goes on to say, during the coming time of trouble for this system,
we will have to be truly united.
So let me ask you, do you think it's any coincidence that here where we are in the
stream of time, that we see Jehovah pulling his organization closer and closer together
in unity? Is it any coincidence that we hear over and over again the need for peace?
And for unity, no. You see, this world gets more and more divided, fragmented,
fighting. We need to pull tighter and tighter together in unity.
And that requires that all of us work on these beautiful qualities of humility,
mildness, and patience. And when there's a lack of unity, what do we have to do?
Well, we have to look at ourselves. You see, generally, we find that the problem is me.
It's us. Maybe we weren't consulted as soon as we should have been.
Or maybe our idea of how the work or this thing should be done wasn't shared by others.
But in the grand scheme of things, does it really make a difference?
And many times when we look at a situation afterwards and we pull back unemotionally,
we generally find that, well, maybe our idea was pretty good, but the timing wasn't good.
Or maybe wasn't that great of an idea after all. Or maybe there was more than one way
for this thing to be handled. Or perhaps Jehovah's Spirit was leading things
in a different direction. Well, again, what can help us to not be an obstacle to unity,
humility, mildness, patience? Just what we're considering in Ephesians chapter 4.
You see, we have to have the confidence that if it's important to Jehovah,
it'll happen. And if not, what a shame it would be if we become an obstacle to unity
over something that's not that important to Jehovah.
You see, brothers and sisters, we need the Gideons to help us in our support of the governing body.
Gideon was such a beautiful example. Once he understood Jehovah's direction,
he was willing to run into the fire for Jehovah and for his organization. That's what we need. We
need Gideons. We don't need anymore Ephremites. So in harmony with today's text,
may each one of us walk worthily in these last days, work on the qualities of humility,
mildness, and patience. And if we do, we will be a uniting force for good and of Gideon
like value to Jehovah and the organization in the troublesome days ahead.